deck file kong2kic docs (#6905)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/deck/reference/deck_file_kong2kic.md

---
title: deck file kong2kic
source_url: https://github.com/Kong/deck/tree/main/cmd/file_kong2kic.go
content_type: reference
---

> Convert decK state files to {{site.kic_product_name}} kubernetes manifests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is a duplicate of the next line.

> The `kong2kic` subcommand transforms Kong's configuration files, written in the deck format, into Kubernetes manifests suitable for the {{site.kic_product_name}}. This tool serves as a bridge for deploying API configurations from deck files directly to a Kubernetes cluster running {{site.kic_product_name}}, facilitating  integration into the final stages of an APIOps pipeline. Essentially, `kong2kic` translates the desired API configurations into a format that `kubectl` can deploy, ensuring that the API's intended state is accurately reflected in the Kubernetes environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kong2kic` subcommand transforms Kong's configuration files, written in the decK format, into Kubernetes manifests suitable for the {{site.kic_product_name}}. This tool serves as a bridge for deploying API configurations from decK files directly to a Kubernetes cluster running {{site.kic_product_name}}, facilitating integration into the final stages of an APIOps pipeline. Essentially, `kong2kic` translates the desired API configurations into a format that `kubectl` can deploy, ensuring that the API's intended state is accurately reflected in the Kubernetes environment.
```

> `kong2kic` integrates API management within kubernetes environments, offering support for both Gateway API and Ingress API standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kong2kic` integrates API management within Kubernetes environments, offering support for both Gateway API and Ingress API standards.
```

Currently supports the HTTP/HTTPS protocol.

> The following table details how Kong configuration entities will be mapped to Kubernetes manifests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table details how Kong configuration entities are mapped to Kubernetes manifests:
```

| decK entity                                                  | K8s entity                                                        |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Service                                                      | Service with annotations and KongIngress for upstream section     |
| Route                                                        | Ingress (Ingress API) or HTTPRoute (Gateway API) with annotations |

> | Global Plugin                                                | KongClusterPlugin                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Global plugin                                                | KongClusterPlugin                                                 |
```

| Plugin                                                       | KongPlugin                                                        |

> | Auth Plugins <br>(`key-auth`, `hmac-auth`, `jwt`, `basic-auth`, `oauth2`, `acl`, `mtls-auth`) | KongPlugin and Secret with credentials section in KongConsumer    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Auth plugins <br>(`key-auth`, `hmac-auth`, `jwt`, `basic-auth`, `oauth2`, `acl`, `mtls-auth`) | KongPlugin and Secret with credentials section in KongConsumer    |
```

| Upstream                                                     | KongIngress or kongUpstreamPolicy                                 |
| Consumer                                                     | KongConsumer                                                      |

> | ConsumerGroup                                                | KongConsumerGroup                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Consumer group                                                | KongConsumerGroup                                                 |
```

              exposed_headers:
                - X-My-Header
              max_age: 3600
              credentials: true
          - name: basic-auth
            config:
              hide_credentials: false
consumers:
  - username: example-user
    custom_id: "1234567890"
    basicauth_credentials:
      - username: my_basic_user
        password: my_basic_password
        tags:
          - internal
    plugins:
      - name: rate-limiting-advanced
        config:
          limit:
          - 5
          window_size:
          - 30
          identifier: consumer
          sync_rate: -1
          namespace: example_namespace
          strategy: local
          hide_client_headers: false
consumer_groups:
  - name: example-consumer-group
    consumers:
      - username: example-user
    plugins:
      - name: rate-limiting-advanced
        config:
          limit:
          - 5
          window_size:
          - 30
          identifier: consumer
          sync_rate: -1
          namespace: example_namespace
          strategy: local
          hide_client_headers: false
          window_type: sliding
          retry_after_jitter_max:
          - 0
```

{% endnavtab %}

> {% navtab Convert to Gateway API %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% navtab Converted to Gateway API %}
```

kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    konghq.com/connect-timeout: "5000"
    konghq.com/path: /v1
    konghq.com/plugins: example-service-rate-limiting-advanced
    konghq.com/protocol: http
    konghq.com/read-timeout: "60000"
    konghq.com/retries: "5"
    konghq.com/write-timeout: "60000"
  name: example-service
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 80
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 80
  selector:
    app: example-service
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: kong
  labels:
    konghq.com/credential: basic-auth
  name: basic-auth-example-user
stringData:
  password: my_basic_password
  username: my_basic_user
---
apiVersion: configuration.konghq.com/v1
consumerGroups:
- example-consumer-group
credentials:
- basic-auth-example-user
custom_id: "1234567890"
kind: KongConsumer
metadata:
  annotations:
    konghq.com/plugins: example-user-rate-limiting-advanced
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: kong
  name: example-user
username: example-user
---
apiVersion: configuration.konghq.com/v1beta1
kind: KongConsumerGroup
metadata:
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: kong
  name: example-consumer-group
---
```

{% endnavtab %}

> {% navtab Convert to Ingress API %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% navtab Converted to Ingress API %}
```
